and a man of the house of Levi went and
took his wife a daughter of Levi so the
woman conceived and bore a son and when
she saw that he was a beautiful child
she hid him three months but when she
could no longer hide him she took an ark
of bulrushes for him dog did with
asphalt and pitch for the child in him
and laid it in the reeds by the rivers
Bank and his sister stood afar off to
know what would be done to him then the
daughter of Pharaoh came down to bathe
at the river and her maidens walked
along the river side and when she saw
the ark among the reeds she sent her
maid to get it and when she opened it
she saw the child and there hold the
baby worked so she had compassion on him
this is one of the Hebrews children then
his sister said to Pharaoh's daughter
should I go and call a nurse for you
from the Hebrew women that she may nurse
the child for you go
so the maiden went and called the
child's mother and Pharaoh's daughter
said to her take this child away and
nurse him for me and I will give you
your wages so the woman took the child
and nursed him and the child grew and
she brought him to Pharaoh's daughter
and he became her son so she called his
name Moses saying because I drew him out
of the water
[Music]
now it came to pass in those days when
Moses was grown that he went out to his
brethren and looked to bear burdens and
he saw an Egyptian beating a Hebrew one
of his brethren so he looked this way
and that way and when he saw no one he
killed the Egyptian and hid him in the
sand
and when he went out the second day hold
two Hebrew men were fighting and he said
to the one who did the wrong
why are you striking your companion who
made you a prince and a judge over us do
you intend to kill me as you killed the
Egyptian so Moses feared and said surely
this thing is known when Pharaoh heard
of this matter he sought to kill Moses
but Moses fled from the face of Pharaoh
and dwelt in the land of Midian and he
sat down by a well now the priest of
Midian had seven daughters and they came
and drew water and they filled the
troughs to water their father's flock
then the Shepherd's came and drove them
away but Moses stood up and helped them
and watered their flock
when they came to ruin their father he
said how is it that you have come so
soon today an Egyptian delivered us from
the hand of the Shepherd's and he also
drew enough water for us and watered the
flock and where is he why is it that you
have left the man call him that he made
bread then Moses was content to live
with a man and he gave sapota his
daughter to Moses and she bore him as
Sabbath he called his name
Gershom for he said I have been a
stranger in a foreign land now it
happened in the process of time that the
king of Egypt died then the children of
Israel groaned because of the bondage
and they cried out and their cry came up
to God because of the bondage so God
heard their groaning and God remembered
his covenant with Abraham with Isaac and
with Jacob and God looked upon the
children of Israel and God acknowledged
them
you